README.md, before:

MechanicalSoup
==============

A Python library for automating interaction with websites. MechanicalSoup automatically stores and sends cookies, follows redirects, and can follow links and submit forms. It doesn't do Javascript.

I was a fond user of the [Mechanize](https://github.com/jjlee/mechanize) library, but unfortunately it's  [incompatible with Python 3](https://github.com/jjlee/mechanize/issues/96) and development is inactive. MechanicalSoup provides a similar API, built on Python giants [Requests](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/) (for http sessions) and [BeautifulSoup](http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/) (for document navigation).

Installation
------

[![Latest Version](https://pypip.in/version/MechanicalSoup/badge.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/MechanicalSoup/)

From [PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/MechanicalSoup/)

     pip install MechanicalSoup

Example
------

From [`example.py`](example.py), code to log into the GitHub website:

```python
"""Example app to login to GitHub"""
import argparse
import mechanicalsoup

parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Login to GitHub.')
parser.add_argument("username")
parser.add_argument("password")
args = parser.parse_args()

browser = mechanicalsoup.Browser()

# request github login page. the result is a requests.Response object http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/user/quickstart/#response-content
login_page = browser.get("https://github.com/login")

# login_page.soup is a BeautifulSoup object http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/#beautifulsoup 
# we grab the login form
login_form = login_page.soup.select("#login")[0].select("form")[0]

# specify username and password
login_form.select("#login_field")[0]['value'] = args.username
login_form.select("#password")[0]['value'] = args.password

# submit form
page2 = browser.submit(login_form, login_page.url)

# verify we are now logged in
messages = page2.soup.find('div', class_='flash-messages')
if messages:
    print(messages.text)
assert page2.soup.select(".logout-form")

print(page2.soup.title.text)

# verify we remain logged in (thanks to cookies) as we browse the rest of the site
page3 = browser.get("https://github.com/matt-hickford/MechanicalSoup")
assert page3.soup.select(".logout-form")
```

For an example with a more complicated form (with checkboxes, radio buttons and textareas), read [`tests/test_browser.py`](tests/test_browser.py).

Development
---------

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/hickford/MechanicalSoup.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/hickford/MechanicalSoup)

### Tests

    py.test

### Roadmap

* Draw [Substack](http://substack.net/art)-style readme art
* Compare with [RoboBrowser](https://github.com/jmcarp/robobrowser) (I didn't know about this project at the time)
* Add features from Mechanize (history, following links)
* Easier API for completing forms
* Write docs and publish website

See also
------

* [RoboBrowser](https://github.com/jmcarp/robobrowser) a similar library, also based on Requests and BeautifulSoup.
* [Hacker News post](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=8012103)
* [Reddit discussion](http://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/2aa13s/mechanicalsoup_a_python_library_for_automating/)

Commit message:

Clarify which Python versions are supported (fixes #3)

README.md, after:

MechanicalSoup
==============

A Python library for automating interaction with websites. MechanicalSoup automatically stores and sends cookies, follows redirects, and can follow links and submit forms. It doesn't do Javascript.

I was a fond user of the [Mechanize](https://github.com/jjlee/mechanize) library, but unfortunately it's  [incompatible with Python 3](https://github.com/jjlee/mechanize/issues/96) and development is inactive. MechanicalSoup provides a similar API, built on Python giants [Requests](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/) (for http sessions) and [BeautifulSoup](http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/) (for document navigation).

Installation
------

[![Latest Version](https://pypip.in/version/MechanicalSoup/badge.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/MechanicalSoup/)

From [PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/MechanicalSoup/)

     pip install MechanicalSoup
     
Pythons version 2.6 through 3.4 are supported (and tested against).

Example
------

From [`example.py`](example.py), code to log into the GitHub website:

```python
"""Example app to login to GitHub"""
import argparse
import mechanicalsoup

parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Login to GitHub.')
parser.add_argument("username")
parser.add_argument("password")
args = parser.parse_args()

browser = mechanicalsoup.Browser()

# request github login page. the result is a requests.Response object http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/user/quickstart/#response-content
login_page = browser.get("https://github.com/login")

# login_page.soup is a BeautifulSoup object http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/#beautifulsoup 
# we grab the login form
login_form = login_page.soup.select("#login")[0].select("form")[0]

# specify username and password
login_form.select("#login_field")[0]['value'] = args.username
login_form.select("#password")[0]['value'] = args.password

# submit form
page2 = browser.submit(login_form, login_page.url)

# verify we are now logged in
messages = page2.soup.find('div', class_='flash-messages')
if messages:
    print(messages.text)
assert page2.soup.select(".logout-form")

print(page2.soup.title.text)

# verify we remain logged in (thanks to cookies) as we browse the rest of the site
page3 = browser.get("https://github.com/matt-hickford/MechanicalSoup")
assert page3.soup.select(".logout-form")
```

For an example with a more complicated form (with checkboxes, radio buttons and textareas), read [`tests/test_browser.py`](tests/test_browser.py).

Development
---------

### Tests

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/hickford/MechanicalSoup.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/hickford/MechanicalSoup)

    py.test

### Roadmap

* Draw [Substack](http://substack.net/art)-style readme art
* Compare with [RoboBrowser](https://github.com/jmcarp/robobrowser) (I didn't know about this project at the time)
* Add features from Mechanize (history, following links)
* Easier API for completing forms
* Write docs and publish website

See also
------

* [RoboBrowser](https://github.com/jmcarp/robobrowser) a similar library, also based on Requests and BeautifulSoup.
* [Hacker News post](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=8012103)
* [Reddit discussion](http://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/2aa13s/mechanicalsoup_a_python_library_for_automating/)
